Update rwx volume doc (#777)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.4.0/advanced-resources/rwx-workloads.md

# Introduction

> Longhorn creates a dedicated `share-manager-<volume-name>` Pod within the `longhorn-system` namespace for each RWX volume that is currently in active use. The Pod facilitate the export of Longhorn volume via an internally hosted NFSv4 server. Additionally, a corresponding Service is created for each RWX volume, serving as the designated endpoint for actual NFSv4 client connections.

Reviewer: Here is the suggested wording.

Longhorn creates a dedicated share manager pod (typically named `share-manager-<volume-name>`) within the `longhorn-system` namespace of each RWX volume that is in active use. Additionally, Longhorn creates a service for each RWX volume. The share manager pod facilitates the export of Longhorn volumes via an internally hosted NFSv4 server, while the service functions as the designated endpoint for NFSv4 client connections.

> Longhorn creates a dedicated `share-manager-<volume-name>` Pod within the `longhorn-system` namespace for each RWX volume that is currently in active use. The Pod facilitate the export of Longhorn volume via an internally hosted NFSv4 server. Additionally, a corresponding Service is created for each RWX volume, serving as the designated endpoint for actual NFSv4 client connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Longhorn creates a dedicated share manager pod (typically named share-manager-<volume-name>) within the longhorn-system namespace of each RWX volume that is in active use. Additionally, Longhorn creates a service for each RWX volume. The share manager pod facilitates the export of Longhorn volumes via an internally hosted NFSv4 server, while the service functions as the designated endpoint for NFSv4 client connections.
```

Reviewer: If the suggested changes are fine, we can copy and paste the new wording into the other sections of the document.

    
    > **Tip:** The [environment check script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/longhorn/longhorn/v{{< current-version >}}/scripts/environment_check.sh) helps users to check all nodes have unique hostnames.

# Notice

> In versions 1.4.0 to 1.4.3 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 of Longhorn, Longhorn CSI plugin `hard` mounts a Longhorn volume exported by a NFS server located within a share-manager Pod in the `NodeStageVolume`. The `hard` mount allows NFS requests to persistently retry without termination, ensuring that IOs do not fail. When the server is back online or a replacement server is recreated, the IOs resume seamlessly, thus guaranteeing data integrity. However, to maintain file system stability, the Linux kernel will not permit unmounting a file system until all pending IOs are written back to storage, and the system cannot undergo shutdown until all file systems are unmounted. If the NFS server fails to recover successfully, the client nodes must undergo a forced reboot.

Reviewer 2: >However, to maintain file system stability, the Linux kernel will not permit unmounting a file system until all pending IOs are written back to storage, and the system cannot undergo shutdown until all file systems are unmounted. If the NFS server fails to recover successfully, the client nodes must undergo a forced reboot.

This looks like the issue should always be reproduced? However, in reality, it would randomly happen?

Author: > However, in reality, it would randomly happen?

Currently, we are unable to reproduce it, so it randomly happens.
Probably adding `potential` is better?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

To mitigate the issue, users can switch to use `softerr` or `soft` mount instead. Users can achieve this by creating a StorageClass with `nfsOptions`. For instance:

```
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: longhorn-test
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
allowVolumeExpansion: true
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: Immediate
parameters:
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
  fromBackup: ""
  fsType: "ext4"
  nfsOptions: "vers=4.1,noresvport,softerr,timeo=600,retrans=5"
``````

> Then, create RWX volume PVCs using the above the StorageClass. Longhorn will then adopt the use of a `softerr` or `soft` mount with a `timeo` value of 600 and a `retrans` value of 5 as default options. When the NFS server becomes unreachable due to factors such as node power outages, network partitions and so on, NFS clients will fail an NFS request after the specified number of retransmissions, resulting in an NFS `ETIMEDOUT` error (or EIO error for `soft` mount) being returned to the calling application and potential data loss.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explain this will also work for the existing RWX volume, but it will ony take effect after reattachment?

Author: >  it will only take effect after reattachment?

Two steps for existing volumes
- Delete the storage class for RWX volumes and create a new one with `nfsOptions`
- Reattachment

Author: Oh, no. For existing storage class's parameters are stored in the `pv.csi.volumeAttributes` which are immutable.
So, only patching version upgrade can handle the existing volumes.

    
    > **Tip:** The [environment check script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/longhorn/longhorn/v{{< current-version >}}/scripts/environment_check.sh) helps users to check all nodes have unique hostnames.

> # Notice

Reviewer: Here is the suggested wording:

# Known Issue

In versions 1.4.0 to 1.4.3 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, Longhorn volumes that are exported by an NFS server hosted within a share manager pod (specifically, in `NodeStageVolume`) are hard mounted by the Longhorn CSI plugin. Hard mounting allows Longhorn to persistently retry sending NFS requests, ensuring that I/Os do not fail even when the NFS server becomes unavailable for some time. I/Os resume seamlessly when the server regains connectivity or a replacement server is created.

This mechanism for guaranteeing data integrity, however, comes with some risk. To maintain stability, the Linux kernel might not allow unmounting of a file system until all pending I/Os are completed. This is a concern because the system cannot shut down until all file systems are unmounted. If the NFS server is unable to recover, the client nodes must undergo a forced reboot.

To mitigate the issue, you can perform the following actions:

- Existing volumes: Making changes to the `nfsOptions` field within `persistentvolume.spec.csi.volumeAttributes` is prohibited so you must upgrade Longhorn to `v1.4.4` or a later version. After upgrading, either `softerr` or `soft` is automatically applied to `nfsOptions` whenever RWX volumes are reattached.

- New volumes: Create a storage class with `nfsOptions`, and then create PVCs for RWX volumes using that specific storage class. By default, Longhorn uses the `softerr` or `soft` mount with a `timeo` value of "600" and a `retrans` value of "5". 

  Example:
  ```
  kind: StorageClass
  apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
  metadata:
    name: longhorn-test
  provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
  allowVolumeExpansion: true
  reclaimPolicy: Delete
  volumeBindingMode: Immediate
  parameters:
    numberOfReplicas: "3"
    staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
    fromBackup: ""
    fsType: "ext4"
    nfsOptions: "vers=4.1,noresvport,softerr,timeo=600,retrans=5"
  ``````

If the NFS server becomes unavailable, requests from NFS clients are sent according to the configured `retrans` value. During longer-duration events such as node power outages, the requests eventually fail and an NFS error (`ETIMEDOUT` or `EIO`) is returned to the calling application. Data loss may also occur.

For more information, see [issue #6655](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6655).

- For new volumes

  Users can switch to use `softerr` or `soft` mount instead. Users can achieve this by creating a StorageClass with `nfsOptions` for newly created volumes. For instance:

  ```
  kind: StorageClass
  apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
  metadata:
    name: longhorn-test
  provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
  allowVolumeExpansion: true
  reclaimPolicy: Delete
  volumeBindingMode: Immediate
  parameters:
    numberOfReplicas: "3"
    staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
    fromBackup: ""
    fsType: "ext4"
    nfsOptions: "vers=4.1,noresvport,softerr,timeo=600,retrans=5"
  ``````

  Then, create RWX volume PVCs using the above the StorageClass. Longhorn will then adopt the use of a `softerr` or `soft` mount with a `timeo` value of 600 and a `retrans` value of 5 as default options. When the NFS server becomes unreachable due to factors such as node power outages, network partitions and so on, NFS clients will fail an NFS request after the specified number of retransmissions, resulting in an NFS `ETIMEDOUT` error (or EIO error for `soft` mount) being returned to the calling application and potential data loss.

>   Please refer to [#6655](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6655) for more information.

Reviewer: Here is the suggested wording:

# Known Issue

In versions 1.4.0 to 1.4.3 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, Longhorn volumes that are exported by an NFS server hosted within a share manager pod (specifically, in `NodeStageVolume`) are hard mounted by the Longhorn CSI plugin. Hard mounting allows Longhorn to persistently retry sending NFS requests, ensuring that I/Os do not fail even when the NFS server becomes unavailable for some time. I/Os resume seamlessly when the server regains connectivity or a replacement server is created.

This mechanism for guaranteeing data integrity, however, comes with some risk. To maintain stability, the Linux kernel might not allow unmounting of a file system until all pending I/Os are completed. This is a concern because the system cannot shut down until all file systems are unmounted. If the NFS server is unable to recover, the client nodes must undergo a forced reboot.

To mitigate the issue, you can perform the following actions:

- Existing volumes: Making changes to the `nfsOptions` field within `persistentvolume.spec.csi.volumeAttributes` is prohibited so you must upgrade Longhorn to `v1.4.4` or a later version. After upgrading, either `softerr` or `soft` is automatically applied to `nfsOptions` whenever RWX volumes are reattached.

- New volumes: Create a storage class with `nfsOptions`, and then create PVCs for RWX volumes using that specific storage class. By default, Longhorn uses the `softerr` or `soft` mount with a `timeo` value of "600" and a `retrans` value of "5". 

  Example:
  ```
  kind: StorageClass
  apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
  metadata:
    name: longhorn-test
  provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
  allowVolumeExpansion: true
  reclaimPolicy: Delete
  volumeBindingMode: Immediate
  parameters:
    numberOfReplicas: "3"
    staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
    fromBackup: ""
    fsType: "ext4"
    nfsOptions: "vers=4.1,noresvport,softerr,timeo=600,retrans=5"
  ``````

If the NFS server becomes unavailable, requests from NFS clients are sent according to the configured `retrans` value. During longer-duration events such as node power outages, the requests eventually fail and an NFS error (`ETIMEDOUT` or `EIO`) is returned to the calling application. Data loss may also occur.

For more information, see [issue #6655](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6655).

> # Notice
> 
> In versions 1.4.0 to 1.4.3 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 of Longhorn, Longhorn CSI plugin `hard` mounts a Longhorn volume exported by a NFS server located within a share-manager Pod in the `NodeStageVolume`. The `hard` mount allows NFS requests to persistently retry without termination, ensuring that IOs do not fail. When the server is back online or a replacement server is recreated, the IOs resume seamlessly, thus guaranteeing data integrity. However, there is potential risk that to maintain file system stability, the Linux kernel will not permit unmounting a file system until all pending IOs are written back to storage, and the system cannot undergo shutdown until all file systems are unmounted. If the NFS server fails to recover successfully, the client nodes must undergo a forced reboot.
> 
> To mitigate the issue,
> 
> - For existing volumes
> 
>   Due to the immutability of `persistentvolume.spec.csi.volumeAttributes`, making adjustments to the `nfsOptions` within this field is prohibited. To address this issue, upgrading to `v1.4.4` or a newer version is required. After upgrading the Longhorn system, the `softerr` or `soft` will be automatically applied when reattaching RWX volumes.
> 
> - For new volumes
> 
>   Users can switch to use `softerr` or `soft` mount instead. Users can achieve this by creating a StorageClass with `nfsOptions` for newly created volumes. For instance:
> 
>   ```
>   kind: StorageClass
>   apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
>   metadata:
>     name: longhorn-test
>   provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
>   allowVolumeExpansion: true
>   reclaimPolicy: Delete
>   volumeBindingMode: Immediate
>   parameters:
>     numberOfReplicas: "3"
>     staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
>     fromBackup: ""
>     fsType: "ext4"
>     nfsOptions: "vers=4.1,noresvport,softerr,timeo=600,retrans=5"
>   ``````
> 
>   Then, create RWX volume PVCs using the above the StorageClass. Longhorn will then adopt the use of a `softerr` or `soft` mount with a `timeo` value of 600 and a `retrans` value of 5 as default options. When the NFS server becomes unreachable due to factors such as node power outages, network partitions and so on, NFS clients will fail an NFS request after the specified number of retransmissions, resulting in an NFS `ETIMEDOUT` error (or EIO error for `soft` mount) being returned to the calling application and potential data loss.
> 
>   Please refer to [#6655](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6655) for more information.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Known Issue

In versions 1.4.0 to 1.4.3 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, Longhorn volumes that are exported by an NFS server hosted within a share manager pod (specifically, in `NodeStageVolume`) are hard mounted by the Longhorn CSI plugin. Hard mounting allows Longhorn to persistently retry sending NFS requests, ensuring that I/Os do not fail even when the NFS server becomes unavailable for some time. I/Os resume seamlessly when the server regains connectivity or a replacement server is created.

This mechanism for guaranteeing data integrity, however, comes with some risk. To maintain stability, the Linux kernel might not allow unmounting of a file system until all pending I/Os are completed. This is a concern because the system cannot shut down until all file systems are unmounted. If the NFS server is unable to recover, the client nodes must undergo a forced reboot.

To mitigate the issue, you can perform the following actions:

- Existing volumes: Making changes to the `nfsOptions` field within `persistentvolume.spec.csi.volumeAttributes` is prohibited so you must upgrade Longhorn to 1.4.4 or a later version. After upgrading, either `softerr` or `soft` is automatically applied to `nfsOptions` whenever RWX volumes are reattached.

- New volumes: Create a storage class with `nfsOptions`, and then create PVCs for RWX volumes using that specific storage class. By default, Longhorn uses the `softerr` or `soft` mount with a `timeo` value of "600" and a `retrans` value of "5". 

  Example:
  kind: StorageClass
  apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
  metadata:
    name: longhorn-test
  provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
  allowVolumeExpansion: true
  reclaimPolicy: Delete
  volumeBindingMode: Immediate
  parameters:
    numberOfReplicas: "3"
    staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
    fromBackup: ""
    fsType: "ext4"
    nfsOptions: "vers=4.1,noresvport,softerr,timeo=600,retrans=5"

If the NFS server becomes unavailable, requests from NFS clients are sent according to the configured `retrans` value. During longer-duration events such as node power outages, the requests eventually fail and an NFS error (`ETIMEDOUT` for `softerr` mount or `EIO` for `soft` mount) is returned to the calling application. Data loss may also occur.

For more information, see [issue #6655](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6655).
```

Reviewer: If the suggested changes are fine, we can copy and paste the new wording into the other sections of the document.
